(sig figs) we do measurements in science

*Rules to determine sig. figs.*

1) Any of the digits of the number beginning with the digits farthest to the right i.e. either not zero or i.e. zero but is considered to be exact are significant.
2) Sig. figs. are use to report a value measured or calculate to the correct number of decimal place or digit that will reflect the precision of the value
3) The no. of sig figs depends on measurement 

*How to count sig. figs.*

1) All non-zero digits are sig. figs..
		example: 225 -> 3 sig figs
				225.8 -> 4 sig. figs.
2) All zero digits that are found between non-zero are significant.
			example :  207 -> 3 sig figs
					2007 -> 4 sig figs
3) Leading zeros (to the left of the first non-zero digit) are not significant.
			example:  ==0.00==85 ->2 sig figs
                    highlighted:  placeholders (not significant)
4) Trailing zeros for a whole number that ends with a decimal point are significant.
			example:  320. -> 3sig figs
					320 -> 2 sig figs
					50 -> 1 sig figs
5) Trailing zeros to the right of decimal are significant.
			example:  12.000  -> 5 sig figs
6) *Exact Numbers* are assumed to have infinite sig. figs.
    *Irrational Numbers* are also assumed to have infinite sig figs
    *examples* :
	    1) Exact numbers: used or defined in a defining expression.
			    ==1== meter ===100== cm
			    highlighted : exact numbers - infinite sig figs.
		2)  Irrational numbers: these are real numbers that cannot be expressed as ratio of integers.
      *Any number i.e. not exact is called inexact*
      

7) for any value written in scientific notation:
         exampple:	A x 10 ^x
		A - arguement/coefficient
		x - is an exact number
		10 is the base
		and for a number thats shown like this the number of sig figs is the number of sigfigs A has
		for a number like this the no, of sig figs is determined by applying the above rules only to the value of A (arguement/coefficient)

		ex: 	4.5 x 10^3 -> 2 sig figs
		1=< argument/coeff < 10

		ex: 4.50 x 10^3 -> 3 sigfigs



# Applying rules of sig figs in calculations.

1. In addition and subtraction the answer cannot have more digits to the right of the decimal point than in original number with the smallest number of digits to the right of the decimal point.
	(keep track of decimals)
	
	example: 	101.70 + 0.252 = 101.952
			2 decimal in first number and 3 decimals in 2nd number 
			so the final asnwer should have two decimals
 			so the last '2' is removed from the result because of 'rounddown'

	* If the answer tot heabove example was:
	101.957 -roundup> 101.96 woould have been the answer
	*same for subtraction

2. In multiplication and division, the number of sig figs in the final asnwer is determined by the original mumber that has the smallest number of sigfigs
	(keep track of sigfigs in this case)
	
	example:	1.4 x 8.011 = 11.2154 >>> 11
	1.4 has 2 sigfigs, 8.011 has 4 sig figs thus the answer should have 2 sig figs
	the final answer is 11 - cause 11 has 2 sigfigs
	* if the answer to the above example was:
	11.715 than wed have to round up the 7 
	and final answer would have  been 12 

3. Exact numbers have infinite num of sig f3. Exact numbers have infinite num of sig f3. Exact numbers have infinite num of sig fig, they do not limit the number of sig fig in a calculation 
		ex: 1 inch = 2.54 cm
		then 2.5 x 2.54 cm = 6.35 cm >>> 6.4cm(rounded up)
		2.5 is inexact and 2.54 is exact
		this is multiplication, we keep track of sigfigs
4. In calculations with multiple steps, retain (keep) at least one extra digit (or more) until the end of the calculatons and account for the sig figs/ decmimals at the very end.
		example: ()